# Meeting notes


Who do we write meeting notes for?

<!-- Note --> 
It's a very common misconception for people to think that meeting
notes are for the people that were *in* the meeting, so they can
remember what was said.

News flash: if you have people in the meeting that can't remember what
was said, they didn't actually participate and shouldn't have been
there in the first place?


Who do we write meeting notes for?

For the people that **weren't** in the meeting.

<!-- Note --> 
Every meeting needs notes and a summary, and you need to circulate
these notes not only with everyone who attended the meeting, but with
everyone who has a need-to-know.

And the way you write them is so a person wo **wasn't** there, or may
not have known of the meeting, or perhaps even *wasn't part of the
organization* at the time of the meeting, can understand what was
said, what was discussed, and what was decided.


Guess who's never in the meeting?

Six-months-from-now-you is never in the meeting. <!-- .element class="fragment" -->

<!-- Note -->
There is one person that I can guarantee is never in a meeting you are
attending today, and that is you, but six months from now. Looking
back at the notes of a meeting *that you participated* in, six months
after the fact, is a terrible experience if the meeting notes are not
good. Writing good meeting notes *today* means making *your* life, six
months from now, easier.


What counts in a meeting is not what everybody **said,** but what
everybody **wrote.**

<!-- Note -->
It follows logically, from the requirement that people who were never
in the meeting must be able to read the meeting notes and understand
everything that they need to know about the meeting, that **only the
written word counts.** What's not on the written record in a meeting
**did not happen.**


Who's responsible for meeting notes?

The meeting chair (the person that called the meeting). <!-- .element class="fragment" -->


Who pulls the meeting notes together?

The scribe (the appointed note-taker). <!-- .element class="fragment" -->


Who writes the meeting notes?

**Everyone.** <!-- .element class="fragment" -->


## Meeting notes structure

1. Meeting title
2. Date, time, attendees
3. Summary
4. Discussion points (tabular)
5. Action items
