# Avoiding Sweglish

(and Germglish, and Ukrainglish, etc.)

<!-- Note -->
As with accents, I personally think that we should celebrate the
little language quirks that come from influences of our native
language on English as a second (or third) language. Unfortunately,
not everyone is so tolerant and sometimes English monolinguals are
*particularly* pesky about these things.

So, what follows are a few little things to think about when it comes
to typical crossovers from our respective native languages, to
English.


## Plurals of acronyms

NDA:s → NDAs


## ..., or?

Adding "..., or?" to a statement is a structure that does not exist in
English.

<!-- Note -->
Adding the suffix "..., or?" to a statement that you want to follow up
with a question that asks for confirmation — that is a structure that
does not exist in English.


This is a good idea, *right?*

That is an excellent proposal, *isn't it?*

I thought we agree on that, *don't we?*


## "disturbance"

... should almost always be replaced with *disruption* (or *issue,* or
*problem,* or *fault*).


## "dosen't"

It stands for "does not", not for "dose not".

You can also spell out "does not"!


## Articles

In regular English, *the* and *a* are not optional.

<!-- Note -->
Applicable exceptions are newspaper headlines ("Congress passes law on
guns") and controlled vocabularies (such as troops in combat using
voice procedure, "gunner, tank, ahead nine hundred, sabot, on my
command, *fire*").

But in regular spoken and written communications, English speakers use
both definite and indefinite articles.


## Subject

English sentences always mention the subject.

<!-- Note --> 
English, unlike Spanish and many Slavic languages, is *not* a null
subject language. You can never leave out the subject in a sentence,
even when it would otherwise be clear from context.

For example, in the English sentence "I am hungry" the "I" is
redundant, because the form "am" uniquely identifies the verb as being
first-person singular. Still, the sentence cannot be shortened to "am
hungry," because that would simply make it incorrect.


## Lowercase "you"

Thank ~You~ you for ~Your~ your help.

<!-- Note --> 
Unlike in German and Polish, English speakers never capitalize *you*
in the middle of a sentence, even when using a polite form of address.
