# What is this about? <!-- .element class="hidden" -->

This is about **writing well** in a professional context.

<!-- Note --> 
That means we're not talking about poetry, or creative writing, or
writing a message to a friend. We're talking about writing in the
context of professional communications.


## Being understandable <!-- .element class="hidden" -->

When you write in a professional context, **your goal** is the
**reader** (or readers) **understanding you.**

<!-- Note -->
That is really the overarching goal, and it's important to understand
that we must do everything we possibly can to make it easy for our
reader to understand what we mean.

When you're writing a novel, you can add plot twists and
surprises. You can even use a literery device called an unreliable
narrator, where at the very end of the novel you reveal that
everything the narrator said (or the protagonist did) was a lie, a
delusion, or a dream.

In professional writing, we don't have that luxury. We must write in
such a way that whoever reads our writing, understands us.


## This applies to all modes of communication <!-- .element class="hidden" -->

This extends to **all modes** of written communication.

<!-- Note -->
And that is the overarching goal no matter the mode we use to
communicate. Writing to be understood extends to...


## Modes of communication <!-- .element class="hidden" -->

Email <!-- .element class="fragment" -->

Chat <!-- .element class="fragment" -->

Issue descriptions and comments <!-- .element class="fragment" -->

Wiki pages <!-- .element class="fragment" -->

Meeting notes <!-- .element class="fragment" -->

Technical documentation <!-- .element class="fragment" -->


## Clarity is the No.1 priority <!-- .element class="hidden" -->

Your No. 1 priority is **clarity.**

<!-- Note -->
Clarity. Not beauty, elegance, or cleverness. Those all have their
place, and there is some room for them in professional writing as
well, but you should never sacrifice clarity for any of them.

I would also say that being clear is more important than being
friendly. If there is something that you need to express, but you
can't do it in a friendly manner if you're being clear, I'd say you
should be clear, rather than friendly. **However,** not being
*friendly* doesn't meant being *disrespectful* â€” even if you're
expressing strong disagreement, you can do so in a respectful manner.


## Clarity takes two forms <!-- .element class="hidden" -->

**Clarity** takes two forms:

1. Clear expression

2. Clear structure

<!-- Note -->
Writing clearly can mean one of two things:

* Clarity of *expression,* that is, caring about how we write each
  sentence (and word, really) with a view toward maximum clarity.

* Clarity of *structure,* that is, caring about how we design
  "documents" (in the broadest sense), so that they are clear and easy
  to understand, and are useful for communication.

Both of them are equally important, and they depend on each other: a
beautifully structured document is useless if it's full of gibberish,
and splendidly clear words are useless if they end up in an
unstructured wall of text.

So we'll spend some time on both, starting with clarity of expression.
